README.md, before:

# WebDevelopment-Course-Practice
### Code samples which I have created while learning web development using online course

#### 1. HTML-Personal Site 
Simple html pages which demonstrate:
- What is Boilerplate of HTML
- How to structure text using various tag such as `<em>,<strong>` etc.
- html Lists `<ul>,<li>,<ol>` </b>
- Image element, Links and Anchor tags - `<img>,<a>`
- `<table>,<tr>,<td>`,use tables for Layout
- How to type Emojis.
- HTML forms, input, submit button. send form input in mail body on click of submit button.
   (`<form action="mailto:email_id">`)

#### 2. CSS-Personal Site
Modify above html pages to use CSS.
- How to use internal, inline and external CSS
- CSS syntax, selectors, classes Ids
-	How to use Favicons, how to embed Google fonts.
- HTML Divs, Box model of Website Styling.
- Static relative and absolute positioning, centring elements.
- Font family, size, weight, height, colour, text-decoration
- Border, padding, margin, display-Block/inline

#### 3. Bootstrap4-TinDog
TinDog website to demonstrate:
- How to use Bootstrap4 in project by BootstrapCDN (CSS,JS)
- Use of various components : Navigation Bar,buttons,Card,Carousal
- Grid Layout,Bootstrap containers, use images or icon from Font Awesome

#### 4. Javascript-Dicee
Dicee game using HTML,CSS,Bootstrap4,Javascript.simple game which generate 2 random number between 1 to 6
,display image of dicee based on it and decide winner on click of play buttom.
- use basic concept of javascript-DataType,Variable,function,operator,control statement.
- selecting,manipulating and changing HTML element's style and other attribute using javascript. 
- Bind click event to button using javascript

#### 5. Javascript-DrumKit
DrumKit application using HTML,CSS,Javascript.It display image of different drums image 
and play different sound based on mouse click and keyboard key press.
- use DOM traversal,Audio class,Binding of button and keyboard event.

#### 5. Node-Weather API
sample test code to take city name as input, call weather API and display tamprature of city from data received from API.
- use Node.js,Express,body-parser,https npm packages.
- Responding to request with HTML file.
- making GET request with the Node HTTPS module.
- using body-parser to parse POST requests to server.parse JSON object into javascript object.

Commit message:

Newsletter signup to post data to the Mailchimp's server.

README.md, after:

# WebDevelopment-Course-Practice
### Code samples which I have created while learning web development using online course

#### 1. HTML-Personal Site 
Simple html pages which demonstrate:
- What is Boilerplate of HTML
- How to structure text using various tag such as `<em>,<strong>` etc.
- html Lists `<ul>,<li>,<ol>` </b>
- Image element, Links and Anchor tags - `<img>,<a>`
- `<table>,<tr>,<td>`,use tables for Layout
- How to type Emojis.
- HTML forms, input, submit button. send form input in mail body on click of submit button.
   (`<form action="mailto:email_id">`)

#### 2. CSS-Personal Site
Modify above html pages to use CSS.
- How to use internal, inline and external CSS
- CSS syntax, selectors, classes Ids
-	How to use Favicons, how to embed Google fonts.
- HTML Divs, Box model of Website Styling.
- Static relative and absolute positioning, centring elements.
- Font family, size, weight, height, colour, text-decoration
- Border, padding, margin, display-Block/inline

#### 3. Bootstrap4-TinDog
TinDog website to demonstrate:
- How to use Bootstrap4 in project by BootstrapCDN (CSS,JS)
- Use of various components : Navigation Bar,buttons,Card,Carousal
- Grid Layout,Bootstrap containers, use images or icon from Font Awesome

#### 4. Javascript-Dicee
Dicee game using HTML,CSS,Bootstrap4,Javascript.simple game which generate 2 random number between 1 to 6
,display image of dicee based on it and decide winner on click of play buttom.
- use basic concept of javascript-DataType,Variable,function,operator,control statement.
- selecting,manipulating and changing HTML element's style and other attribute using javascript. 
- Bind click event to button using javascript

#### 5. Javascript-DrumKit
DrumKit application using HTML,CSS,Javascript.It display image of different drums image 
and play different sound based on mouse click and keyboard key press.
- use DOM traversal,Audio class,Binding of button and keyboard event.

#### 6. Node-Weather API
sample test code to take city name as input, call weather API and display tamprature of city from data received from API.
- use Node.js,Express,body-parser,https npm packages.
- Responding to request with HTML file.
- making GET request with the Node HTTPS module.
- using body-parser to parse POST requests to server.parse JSON object into javascript object.

#### 7. Newsletter-Signup
Implement single page Newaletter signup functionality where user provide basic detail,email Id and press signup for posting data to Mailchimp's server via their API.
- use HTML,CSS,Bootstrap4,Node.js and Express,body-parser,request,https npm packages.
- respond to GET and PUT request using express.
- parse POST request using body parser. convert data from JSON to javascript object and viceversa.
- call mailChimp API to post data to Mailchimp's server using HTTPS module of Node. pass jsonData as input to API using request module.
- display success or failure pages based on response of mailChimp API.
- use Bootstrap templates and customise it for signup page. use jumbotron for success and failure page.
